ORVYN
Complete Setup Guide
From zero to a working cloud backend + Windows desktop client
This assumes you already have orvyn-full.zip from earlier. Follow the parts in order — Part 1 gets the backend live on the internet, Part 2 gets ORVYN installed and connected on your Windows laptop. Total time: 30-60 minutes, most of it waiting on installs.
What you'll need before starting
A cloud provider account. This guide covers DigitalOcean and OVH side by side — the same steps work almost identically on Vultr, Hetzner, AWS Lightsail, or Azure too, just with different button labels.
A domain name you control (e.g. yourdomain.com), so you can point a subdomain like orvyn.yourdomain.com at the server. Needed for automatic HTTPS — see the 'No domain name?' note in Part 1, Step 1.2 if you don't have one.
A free GitHub account, to host the code your server will pull from.
Your Windows laptop, with permission to install software on it.
About 20 minutes of waiting for a Windows installer build near the end.
Part 0 — Put the code on GitHub
Do this once, before touching any cloud server. You'll clone this repo onto your server directly from GitHub instead of uploading a zip file — cleaner, and it gives you real version history.
Step 0.1 — Create the repository
Go to github.com and click New repository.
Name it orvyn (or anything you like). Leave it empty — do not add a README, license, or .gitignore on GitHub's side, since your local folder already has files.
Choose Private unless you have a specific reason to make it public — see the security note below.
Step 0.2 — Push your local code to it
On your Windows laptop, open PowerShell in the extracted orvyn folder (from orvyn-full.zip):
cd Documents\orvyn
Create a .gitignore first so build output and secrets never get committed:
node_modules/dist/release/.env*.log
Save that as a file named exactly .gitignore in the orvyn folder, then run:
git initgit add .git commit -m "Initial ORVYN commit"git branch -M maingit remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/orvyn.gitgit push -u origin main
Security note:  Never commit your .env file or your ORVYN_API_KEY — that key is a password. The .gitignore above prevents this as long as you don't manually git add .env. If you make the repo public, double-check this before pushing.
Part 1 — Cloud backend
Choosing a provider:  Steps below are written for DigitalOcean and OVH side by side — look for the labeled sub-steps for whichever you're using. Everything else (Docker, .env, docker compose) is identical either way.
Step 1.1 — Create the server
If using DigitalOcean:
Sign in to DigitalOcean and create a new Droplet (their term for a VM):
Image: Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
Size: the cheapest "Basic" plan (1 GB RAM / 1 vCPU) is enough for the backend alone. Go up to at least 8 GB RAM only if you'll also run a real model via Ollama on this same box.
Authentication: choose "SSH Key" and add your public key (see Step 1.1's shared instructions below).
Click Create. Note the server's public IP once it's up (looks like 164.90.xxx.xxx). The login user is root.
If using OVH:
Sign in to the OVHcloud Control Panel. You have two options — either works:
VPS (simpler, cheaper, recommended for this): Public Cloud → VPS → choose Ubuntu 22.04, the cheapest plan, and your region.
Public Cloud instance (more like a DigitalOcean droplet, pay-as-you-go): Public Cloud → Compute → Instances → create one with the Ubuntu 22.04 image.
Either way, you'll be prompted for an SSH public key during creation — add it (see the shared instructions right below).
Important difference:  OVH's Ubuntu images log you in as ubuntu, not root. Every command below that says ssh root@... becomes ssh ubuntu@... on OVH, and server-side commands need sudo in front (or run sudo -i once to become root for the whole session).
Note the server's public IP once it's up.
Generating an SSH key (needed for either provider, only once):
If you've never made one, open PowerShell on your Windows laptop and run:
ssh-keygen -t ed25519
Press Enter through the prompts to accept the defaults. Then open the printed .pub file location (default C:\Users\<you>\.ssh\id_ed25519.pub) in Notepad, copy its contents, and paste that into your provider's SSH key box during server creation.
Step 1.2 — Point your domain at the server
In your domain registrar's DNS settings (GoDaddy, Namecheap, Cloudflare, wherever you bought the domain), add an A record:
Type
Name
Value (points to)
A
orvyn
164.90.xxx.xxx (your server's IP)

This makes orvyn.yourdomain.com resolve to your server. DNS changes can take a few minutes up to an hour to propagate — you can move on and check back later.
No domain name?  You can skip DNS/HTTPS and use the server's bare IP over plain HTTP instead — it works, but the connection won't be encrypted, so treat it as fine for testing/personal use only. Skip Step 1.5's Caddy/HTTPS setup and use http://164.90.xxx.xxx:4570 as your backend URL everywhere below instead of https://orvyn.yourdomain.com.
Step 1.3 — Connect and install Docker
If using DigitalOcean:
From PowerShell on your Windows laptop:
ssh root@164.90.xxx.xxx
(Replace with your actual server IP. Type yes if asked to trust the host.)
If using OVH:
From PowerShell on your Windows laptop:
ssh ubuntu@<your-ovh-ip>
Then become root for the rest of this session so the commands below match exactly:
sudo -i
Then, on either provider, once connected:
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com | shapt-get update && apt-get install -y docker-compose-plugin gitdocker --versiondocker compose version
Both version commands should print something — if either errors, stop and re-run the install lines above.
Step 1.4 — Get the code onto the server
Now that the code is on GitHub (Part 0), pull it directly onto the server — no file upload needed. Still connected via SSH:
cd ~git clone https://github.com/yourusername/orvyn.gitcd orvyn
Private repo?  If your GitHub repo is private, this clone will prompt for credentials. The simplest fix: generate a GitHub Personal Access Token (GitHub → Settings → Developer settings → Personal access tokens → generate one with 'repo' scope), and use it as the password when prompted (username is still your GitHub username).
Whenever you push updates to GitHub later, pull them onto the server the same way — from inside the orvyn folder:
git pulldocker compose up -d --build
Step 1.5 — Configure secrets and start it
Still on the server, inside the orvyn directory:
cp .env.example .envopenssl rand -hex 32
Copy the random string that prints out. Now edit the .env file:
nano .env
Fill it in like this (paste your actual generated key and your actual domain), then save with Ctrl+O, Enter, then exit with Ctrl+X:
ORVYN_API_KEY=paste-the-generated-string-hereDOMAIN=orvyn.yourdomain.com
Important:  Write this API key down somewhere safe — you'll need to type it into the Windows app in Part 2. Anyone who has it has full access to your backend, so treat it like a password.
Now start everything:
docker compose up -d --build
This takes a few minutes the first time (building the backend image, pulling Ollama and Caddy). Watch it if you want:
docker compose logs -f
Press Ctrl+C to stop watching (this does not stop the containers).
Step 1.6 — Verify it's live
From your Windows laptop (or the server, either works):
curl https://orvyn.yourdomain.com/api/v1/health
You should get back:
{"status":"ok","service":"orvyn-backend","version":"0.1.0"}
If this fails:
Connection refused / timeout — DNS probably hasn't propagated yet, or ports 80/443 aren't open. Check docker compose ps on the server — all three containers (backend, ollama, caddy) should say Up.
Certificate error — Caddy is still requesting the certificate; wait a minute and retry. Check docker compose logs caddy for errors — the most common cause is DNS not actually pointing at this server yet.
Your backend is now live on the internet. Part 2 gets your laptop talking to it.
Part 2 — Windows desktop client
Step 2.1 — Install prerequisites on your Windows laptop
You need Node.js to build the app once. Download and install the LTS version from nodejs.org (accept the defaults). Verify it worked by opening a new PowerShell window:
node --versionnpm --version
Both should print version numbers.
Step 2.2 — Get the code and build the installer
If you still have the extracted orvyn folder from Part 1's zip on your laptop, cd into it. Otherwise, extract orvyn-full.zip again somewhere on your laptop (e.g. Documents\orvyn), then in PowerShell:
cd Documents\orvynnpm installnpm run dist:win -w apps/desktop
This takes a few minutes the first time. When it finishes, you'll find:
apps\desktop\release\ORVYN Setup 0.1.0.exe
That's your installer.
Step 2.3 — Install ORVYN
Double-click "ORVYN Setup 0.1.0.exe". Windows may show a SmartScreen warning since this isn't a signed/notarized installer yet — click More info → Run anyway. Choose an install location when prompted, finish the install, and launch ORVYN.
Step 2.4 — Connect it to your cloud backend
In the ORVYN window:
Click the ⚙️ (Connection) icon in the left Activity Bar.
Set Backend URL to https://orvyn.yourdomain.com (exactly what you put in DOMAIN, with https:// in front, no trailing slash).
Set API Key to the value you generated and saved in Step 1.5.
Click Test Connection. You should see: ✓ Connected — orvyn-backend v0.1.0
Click Save.
If Test Connection fails, double check the URL has no typo and that Step 1.6's curl check worked from this same laptop.
Step 2.5 — Try it end to end
Click the 📁 (Explorer) icon, then Open Folder, and pick any folder on your laptop (a real project, or just an empty test folder).
Click the Chat tab in the AI panel on the right and send a message. You'll get the mock model's response by default — that confirms the full round trip (your laptop → your cloud server → back) is working.
Try 🔍 Search / RAG: click Rebuild Index, then search for a term you know is in one of your files.
Try Agent: give it an instruction, watch it list your directory, and approve or deny when it asks to write a file.
Everything is now running against your own cloud server instead of localhost.
Optional next step — connect a real model
Right now ORVYN is talking to the built-in mock model. To get real AI responses instead of the placeholder text, pull a real model into the Ollama container already running on your server:
# on the server, inside the orvyn directorydocker compose exec ollama ollama pull llama3
Then in ORVYN, go to 🧠 AI Models → Add Model:
Field
Value
Model ID
llama3
Display Name
Llama 3
Provider
ollama
Endpoint
http://ollama:11434
Context Window
8192
Capabilities
check chat, code, agent, tools

Click Add Model, then Test Model to confirm it responds. Then go to the Model Routing section further down and set chat/code/agent to point at llama3 instead of the mock.
Note:  http://ollama:11434 only resolves from inside the Docker network on your server (that's the Compose service name) — this is correct as written, since the backend (not your laptop) is what talks to Ollama.
Quick troubleshooting reference
Symptom
Likely cause
Fix
"Permission denied (publickey)" on ssh
Wrong username for the provider (root vs ubuntu), or key not added at creation
OVH uses ubuntu@, DigitalOcean uses root@ — double check which; re-add your SSH key in the provider's panel if needed
git clone asks for a password and rejects it
GitHub no longer accepts account passwords for git operations
Use a Personal Access Token as the password instead (GitHub → Settings → Developer settings → Personal access tokens)
curl to health endpoint hangs/fails
DNS not propagated, or firewall blocking 80/443
Wait for DNS, check docker compose ps, check cloud provider's firewall rules allow 80/443
Windows "Test Connection" fails but curl works
Typo'd URL or API key in the app
Re-check Backend URL has https://, no trailing slash; re-paste API key
401 Unauthorized even with correct-looking key
Key in the request doesn't match .env on server
Re-check .env on the server; restart with docker compose up -d after any .env change
Agent/Composer/Chat all say "Configure a real model"
Expected — that's the mock model
Follow "Optional next step" above
npm run dist:win fails
Node version too old, or antivirus interfering
Install Node 18+ LTS; temporarily disable antivirus real-time scan for the build folder
SmartScreen blocks the installer
Installer isn't code-signed
Click "More info → Run anyway" — expected for an unsigned installer
Security reminders
Worth re-reading before you invite anyone else in:
The ORVYN_API_KEY is currently the only thing standing between the internet and your backend — treat it like a password. Regenerate it (openssl rand -hex 32, update .env, docker compose up -d) if you ever suspect it leaked.
Everyone who has this key has full access — there's no per-user permissions yet. Only share it with people you'd trust with shell access to that server.
The Agent's terminal tool runs real shell commands on your cloud server when approved. It requires your explicit approval each time, but there's no sandboxing beyond that — don't approve commands you don't understand.
